Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that once tried to lure Penelope Keith into an airlock.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James, and what are you today, Richard?
Well, I was a one-eyed Celtic god, but I'm now, oh, about to court Penelope Keith in a pair of Sutex pyjamas and really extensive platforms for this one.
And quite a bit of backcoming.
They are impressive platform.
Like, is he in stilettos?
He is.
So we are watching series one, episode 12, End of Eternity, and it does feature the amazing spectacle of Peter Bowles as the devil, the most middle class devil in all of Christendom.
He was always a man of wealth and toast.
But also a devil who looks like he's been dressed by the same people that dressed ABBA in the mid 70s.
It's incredible album.
They really are Sutex pyjamas.
You look, check out the shoulders.
It's got fabulous piping that...
Now we know.
I thought that as soon as I saw it.
Now we know who was the hand behind the cushion. all the time.
It's a Peter Bowels.
No, no, no.
Sorry.
He's lived for over a 1000 years, you know.
He really has, but he's no longer with us.
And so be nice.
Oh okay.
Yeah, or be nice, whatever.
All right.
Let's change the habit of a lifetime.
It's not so black, so we'll be nice.
Yes, quiet.
So I think we should head in. do you think?
Sure.
What's our exciting word?
So our exciting word was going to be backcoming.
Thank you, Richard.
It's a theme.
But you changed it?
Instead, it's Grantly.
And so the next time you...
I'm going to get Richard to press play.
And so I'm going to say it now.
Grantly.
I'm doing it on the lee.
I would say, Grantley.
Did you?
I don't know about you, but my back needs scrubbing.
I need that loofer.
Oh, no, it's a pumice loofer.
I hardly know.
I love that.
Oh, don't you know the Kirby wires?
We're actually pretending there's realising that there is 16th gravity.
I don't think there's Kirby wise.
I think everyone's doing like light in their loafers acting. bouncy protecting.
Are there?
Yeah, there was on the box and you'll notice there are wires they use for the effects as well, but oh, best shot of an eagle so far.
So, Nathan, you were saying before the podcast that you wanted to ride that man's moustache?
I did whatever.
He is very hot.
He doesn't have many more than a couple of lines.
I was a little bit disappointed and he's not credited.
He doesn't need them.
No, he's really I do get credited.
I can tell you who he is, if you want.
Yeah, no.
I mean, we obviously have.
So the guy, so this is super weird.
The guy who plays Baxter, is it?
So he's an English guy.
He looks terrifically familiar, but he moves to Australia, I think.
Well, he does sound a bit Australian.
Yeah, it sounds like Bud Tingwell, actually.
He's so familiar.
Which one are we talking about?
So this guy here, he's not the Mo guy.
But the other guy, Mike Baxter.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, you know, he's been in several other episodes before this.
He's actually a back character.
And in, um, hang on.
Which one is it?
Is it Guardian of Perry?
somewhere he has lines.
I think Guardian of Perry, hasn't it?
Oh, maybe he was in...
Maybe he was the original...
Do you remember the guy who got recar suddenly?
Because, um, Paul...
That was Gareth Hunt, who was the Gareth Hunt.
It does kind of look like that.
So one thing that we may not have noticed is that there's a door in the asteroid, which we've just seen, the 1st shot of it is bizarrely upside down.
And so someone in editing, Brendan, has made a terrible mistake.
Someone in set dressing, I think.
Because I think the doors upside down, but the rest of the corridor isn't.
No, no, no, no.
No, no.
Yeah, yeah.
That's someone in editing.
Yeah, yeah. someone in editing.
Yeah.
Working with film, if you don't have a person in frame, it's an each weight.
Lazy Susan pivot. on the floor, which look like they should be on the ceiling, I think.
So it is understandable.
I will say that James Smiley, who I, Jim Smiley, Jim Smiley.
One thing we have heard him in is Red Dwarf, where he is the voice of the Justice Computer.
He's done a bunch of big finish stuff as well.
Yeah, we get a lot of stuff in the 70s too.
He does have an amazing voice.
He's very, very familiar looking, I think.
Very charming.
He is very charming.
Like Barry Morse.
Yes, anyway.
Slightly more roundable than Barry.
Well, depends who...
Yeah, not as ridable as the moustache guy, though.
Oh, um, he is James is also in The Heart of Segoff from the Tomorrow People.
Yes, I haven't seen that, and I...
When are we doing the tomorrow?
I can't see myself remedying that.
It really is.
Yeah, what would you watch first?
The tomorrow, the rest of the tomorrow, people, or Babylon 5.
Yeah, I've never heard of either of them.
Tomorrow People was fantastic at the time. grittiness to it.
Oh, Ray Austin, fantastic.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. going to be good.
But no, they are on the...
So look at them doing this sort of shitty, no gravity acting.
And suddenly there's air and the gravity is back.
Like, no one really seems to know how space works.
I didn't realise that, yeah, the density of oxygen produces one.
That's right.
Although...
I love how they have their name...
But I love that nobody tests for microbes.
I think that Koenig's won. is upside down.
It is.
Yes, you know, it's clearly a letroset thing.
In a little while they walk off in numerical order, which I think is kind of adorable, but his one is definitely upside down.
Do you reckon he just fights the others for the one?
It's just about Coney.
Oh, fuck off.
I'm not being four.
I'm wearing the one. one.
And that's the thing.
I think the annoying thing is I think we have one, three, four, five, 6, and eight.
I think it's, I think it's, it's Baylor.
I'm mucking it up.
Upside down, Miss Jane. you're right.
That is totally upside down. traffic on the door because I'm here to tell you about the scenes we never get to see.
See, now it's okay.
Yeah, yeah, now it's the right way up.
I don't know whether that wasn't actually deliberate and Rayoston was being particularly creative and German expressionistic.
I wondered about that, whether it was unsettling.
There's a cut moment about, ooh, halfway through the episode where Kono and Bergman have seen muddling over a computer and they say, I've done it.
I finally succeeded in translating my computer. via the magistrate that is Barbara Shelley.
The alien inscription on the door to Baylor's cave.
And it says, danger, psychopath.
Do not end.
Do not open.
Yeah.
And Kernig laughs and says, now you tell me.
I can't think why that was coming.
But yeah, there is perhaps there's a mind trick thing. don't...
Oh, actually, no, the shining isn't out till 1980, 81.
You know how Kubrick was doing things like turning the carpet 70 degrees, very different shots.
So everything was slightly out of kilt.
But it is a German thing to do in Oofa Studios.
Have we mentioned German expressionism yet?
Yeah, I think so.
I'd say they're saying they're Dutch angling the corridor.
Well, that's 7 degrees.
So around that, the mere, when you say that, is the mere light.
I love these.
And Keith Wilson's got another garage sale.
Honestly, his kid, he's poor.
His poor kid's leaving certificate artwork is just gets everywhere.
I actually don't remember 70s art ever looking different from this.
No, no, no.
I think it's really impressive.
And later when we see the actual just sort of shots of it and we kind of properly realise what it's saying.
I just remember album covers looking exactly like this.
Yes, yeah.
Yeah.
And how about that?
Look, it's even got the red piping, Sutex red piping.
That palm has just been plumping a cushion. on Mars.
No, this is bloody horrific.
It's really awful, isn't it?
And later on, he talks about how he was like horribly mutilated and how it was Conig who dressed his wounds.
Like super gross.
Where's moustache guy?
He's not looking at the camera.
Can you look at the camera, please?
terrariums because they always put...
Put them in...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We brought this perspect box to carry off mutilated bodies in.
That we decided to mutilate.
I didn't really understand what was going on there.
So, yeah, why does the door explode?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And later, like it explains, it explodes later, he finds it at Twice.
Yeah, yeah.
Then Jimmy walks up to it and gets exploded.
I'd also like to know how this terrible damage happens to his optic nerve and he somehow doesn't realise it.
Yeah, given he's supposed to be a pilot.
I thought it was his hands.
No, no, no, it's optic.
I mean, it goes...
He never says, actually, I can't really see anything, right?
You know, that's like he doesn't seem to notice.
And I love that the girl on the right really needs a wee.
Here's moustache guy.
Is he an Italian?
Is he one of the Italian?
always Italian.
And there's also a very attractive blonde gentleman just coming up, Barbara.
Barbara coming up behind Barbara.
Where is he?
There he is.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, he's a genius.
I can't see a blonde.
I can only see a gene.
Oh, my God, he is hot.
The one with the yellow arm.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Hello.
Ginji Ginji.
She won't live long.
Never do the pretty ones on this.
Have you noticed?
Quick look busy.
So in the UK, this originally went out a week after Pyramids of Mars.
There we go.
November.
No, that's right, because the script was handed in 2nd of October 74.
Yeah, so this went out November 20, 1975.
Of course, dates vary, but so this seat is like young people sitting in an art gallery looking up the paintings on Wikipedia or whatever because they're like, it's just over there, Victor.
Like, just look over there.
I didn't quite know where that's happening.
Oh, he's dead.
He was horribly mutilated, but there we go.
You fucked it again, Dave.
There is a lot of failing to get the, um, like failing to properly focus on people in this episode.
Oh, interesting.
Well, Ray, how long had Ray been directing Brenton?
Oh, about 6 years at this point.
But yeah, like 7 years.
Can you see, like, if you've got a film camera and stuff, you can see whether it's going to be in focus.
Just pulling focus quickly.
But they just don't quite manage to get it.
Because obviously I'm looking for a screenshot with a very expressive Barbara Bane expression.
Yeah, that's perfect.
It's not the director.
It's simply the time that it actually takes to shoot all of these different cuts and scenes.
And don't forget that Lee Cats and for all that he was blamed, was simply shooting at a standard Hollywood pace.
Yeah, yeah.
But British money.
And yeah, we know what was happening with the economy this year because we've talked about it before.
There wasn't money for reshoots.
There wasn't time.
So they're shoving in a lot more.
And why are you wearing that?
No, well, they wear cling film when they're doing operating because when the baby, remember Alpha Child?
Like the alpha child, she's also wearing cling film in that shop too.
It's just a look.
It is a seasonal look.
Yeah, sort of, yeah.
Something I want to point out here and it happens throughout the episode as well.
When he's using his powers.
It cancels the sound around him.
Oh, wow.
I love that.
It was just a score.
It scored whenever it's violent.
Yes.
So yeah, about right here, we're about to get her saying he's alive, but we don't hear it.
And later on when he's throwing people around, we often don't hear impacts.
See, I thought that we didn't hear it because she's behind the glass.
That's what it's like here because she comes out and speaks.
But later on, it's a thing when it uses power.
Right.
Except at the end when he's fighting Konig.
Yeah.
I thought that was really impressive because you can clearly see her say she's alive.
He's alive and I thought that was really terrific.
And he's wearing that outfit.
Was the outfit shredded?
Do you think the outfit kind of regenerated?
Like, David Ten, the end of Power of the Doctor.
Oh, how dare you?
There's a nice thing in the science-iness of this.
Do you want to talk about accelerated cell regeneration yet?
Because Johnny Byrne is science-y.
Yeah.
So there's a thing called apoptosis, which means that your cells are all constantly dying, that you're dying all the time.
Oh and I feel it.
Yeah, my god.
Well, that's much like this podcast.
But many cells actually have a timer that limits the number of divisions and therefore...
So they stop.
So, well, but what he is is a blasthema. which sounds like a naughty word.
He's a big cancer.
Yeah, well, you know how some animals can regenerate limbs or tails?
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, many conservative politicians in this very own country.
Indeed, just regrow from nothing to see your parent.
Apparently, they are listening.
Anyway, so, but yeah, Johnny Byrne wanted to see him as an amorphous mass of undifferentiated cells that migrate to, you know, to the wound and specialise in functional tissues.
So Baylor's genetic code has been reprogrammed to do the same.
Now, this is what's interesting to go back to Brendan's point.
Electrical stimulation can aid the process of saw regeneration in such reptiles.
And you note that Baylor also has an electric touch of the user's torch.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now, a nice note in the script.
Oh, also, excitingly, we're on Peach Melbourne alert.
I know. the 1st time.
Now, structurally, this is the 1st time that you see main mission on yellow Chartreuse Alert.
It's the only time, but in season two, it's always yellow.
Always yellow.
I'm just talking over this disappearing rock scene because it's not the most exciting.
I love this.
You'll love the disappearing.
Well, I just like the, the, you know, like the in-camera stuff, the exposition stuff.
And also we're in we're in Kerning's office or are we in?
Yeah, no, we are.
Yeah, there's the glue.
They use the same set for us.
But I love it when they go peachy.
I like to think that Peach Marlborough Lash is known as Dame Nelly to have her head.
But that was disturbing when we were little and fascinating because it's so simple.
And also, it gives you an, it gives you a potential answer, James, to do his clothes recombine well if he's rocks too.
So to speak.
And it explains the end, like we call back to it at the very last choice. we do.
Yes, yeah.
He's hugging that like a child.
He's basically the master.
Well, he's Ballas.
I mean, you know, Baal.
It's the same definition.
So he's also that sexy Janet Fielding woman type person in Ghostbusters standing on the roof at the New York tower.
That's Baal.
I did look...
But the dogs were Bart.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, no, Baal gets some mention.
And I did look up Baylor in the monster manual and he is a demon, apparently.
Oh, dance floor.
Peterball's only Baylor.
Yeah, so here we're about...
That's me waking up in the morning and taking the CPAP machine off.
Now, I'd like to just give a word to Eileen Sullivan, who is the wardrobe coordinator, because she had had a long career, including the 1st 5 James Bond films.
Oh, wow.
Golly.
And did she do the outfit?
She did this outfit.
It is terrible, isn't it?
No, it's not.
It suits it.
Look, she had been watching Pyramids of Mars the previous week.
Oh, you know, she may have been a friend of, was it Jim Matches?
But she then goes on to do Star Wars episode 5 and six.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
Yeah, she had some big industry credits.
She does over 30 space 1999s.
Wow, wow.
I mean, I still, again, I just think...
It does get a bit the producers, doesn't it?
He does spend a lot of time throwing, well, but throwing them onto each other, which I think would be quite fun.
Like I, you know, like I can see an upside.
And obviously, you know, all those years in stasis, his lower back's fine.
Oh my god.
There are some really, really great shitty stunt double moments when he's throwing people around.
Not this, not in this fight, but later, because no one can quite do the backcoming.
You know who the stunt bloke is, don't you?
It's friend of the podcast, Elf joint.
Oh, always sleeping off things and getting radiators thrown into his bath by Sean Connery.
Same, same fella.
But did we mention the back combing?
Because there's quite a lot going on there.
Eyeliner.
I think though, why is it always fucking 12?
All of those stopped, all of those things stopped.
It's always 12 on those things.
Bloody interns never bother them.
They never wind them.
Never bother.
I think like terrifying.
It is super weird having him on stilts, isn't it?
Oh, and they and we did get a shot of the boots as he was throwing...
And they are they are white sort of Cuban heel platform.
Exotic screwdriver.
Right.
But, like, I think that having those scenes where his head is so close to the ceiling because, you know, the sets have a ceiling and, you know, the cameras are, you know, looking down, looking up from below.
Like, I think that that is striking.
I mean, it looks stupid, but it's striking as well.
I should point out, and I forgot, Eileen also did 2001 of Space Once.
Oh, she had sci-fi cred before this.
And this sort of sci-fi crand.
Yeah.
So how does this guy not fucking notice that he's fucking optic nervous burned out?
You can have optic nerve damage that you can't see.
You know, and eyesight, I think they're using, because he's an eagle pilot, I think they're using the sort of Air Force rules of the US Air Force Australian Air Force.
Most of the Air Forces, if not all of them, have very strict rules about eyesight.
Okay, yeah.
I don't get to be a bomber pilot.
One of my friends didn't have to go into pilot training because he's colourblind.
That's all it was.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So yes, you know, it could be something as simple as his light receptors are affected.
He's not going to go blind, but yeah.
I actually really quite like how quickly we cut to this.
You know, like, and like, and what we get is his reaction.
Like he's just been told, we don't even get to see it.
I thought that was a pretty good...
This is heartbreaking.
Yeah, yeah, it's good, isn't it?
Leave me alone. leave me alone.
It's just...
And he's saying it to his commander and like John so feels for him that he just sort of walks off and so I think it's really good.
Yeah, I think that flashback episode we had a while ago makes it clear that, you know, before he's a commander, John's a pilot as well.
Yeah, of course.
So we understands it.
No, Jim is really good here and he does break your heart.
To the point that you kind of forget he's the guy who's going to die this week because he's not a main cast member kind of thing.
But he's been in several other Eps, and unfortunately, with the order.
We're we're watching this.
British broadcast, but it isn't production and yeah, he actually has a character with a voice before this.
That was Sylvia, again.
Oh, really?
behind you.
Hi, Carl.
Jesus Christ.
It's music knife.
Although, I was a child in the 70s, and that is what people look like.
They had proper hair like that.
I thought he killed them.
I'm unimpressed.
He just throws them on each other.
Men did use Hesper. that, Jim?
It's all a bit more common wise.
Oh, wish, now you're talking.
Oh my god.
Yeah, that's the thing.
The height is very effective when shot from above the knees.
Yes.
Yeah.
When we actually see his legs, He looks stupid.
Yeah, and he's evidently not a drag queen because he can't bloody walk in those heels.
But it actually adds to the alienness of the character that he is sort of walking this weird kind of kind of strange gait.
I think it's just that his head is so close to the ceiling. that's what's hugely weird Like these shots are the tightest.
Do you think?
Oh, hello.
It is heightest.
I only use pens that match my sleeve.
I love that.
Absolutely.
Why is she writing in yellow?
Everyone, everyone's such a panicky fucking idiot.
Look, the alarms are quick.
Right over there.
Now it's a man.
It's a man.
It's the exact sort of man.
It's so weird.
At a waitrose car park.
I tell a lie, the boots are silver.
Because we're in space.
It's a suspiciously tall man.
Everyone's being such a dipshit.
How did they ever get a job on the moon?
But yeah, it is fascinating that we get such similar outfits for versions of the devil.
Coincidentally.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They brought them so close to Sutix.
I mean, are they Hittite or Egyptian?
But it is a very space thing too, isn't it?
Like those shoulders and stuff.
The sort of weird piping thing.
Yeah.
I mean, CJ's wearing a dress, isn't he?
He doesn't have...
Enough joint is about five. six.
Oh yeah, there he is.
There's Alf.
There's Alf there.
There he is again.
Throw that guy onto the other guys.
Whoa.
This is a little thing I tossed off in the Caribbean.
Now, oddly, we're on 2nd generation kind of, oh, okay.
We are, the film stocks.
Wow, because we're doing the, we're doing the...
Oh, the opticals.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And we're on Midori alert.
Yeah, 2nd generation film stock.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. that.
Like, what's that?
Really?
Well, it's because we're doing, again, the mix, the the, yeah, the fade cross fade.
Like share, just one name.
Just one name.
He has the worst teeth, doesn't he?
He did grow up in England.
Yes, the great book of British Smiles. really bad.
I thought it was Czechoslovakian.
He's actually British all the way back.
Stop.
Do you know the best story?
Is it time to tell you the best story?
Maybe I've seen.
No, we've got a lot of boring exposition happening in this scene.
Oh, well.
I mean, actually think he does.
Look, he's doing great, Frankenfer to Bowie, British character, villain.
I mean, it goes back to Universal Carl Lemle films, but the hell, I'm just so terribly poised by my narcissism.
Why should people blow me up like this?
I think he's memorable.
Why are you so cruel?
I think he's doing...
I think he's doing it as a piss take of the Stanislavsky method of Babs and Marty.
I wonder if he's no, he's not.
I mean, he's doing this.
This is just classic horror.
It's so performative.
You've even got it with light in ghost light.
That's the voice that they do.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. absolutely.
Also, I just want to say, from the point of view of Conig, this is the 1st time an alien's been attacking and when Coney's gone, can you not?
They've actually gone, oh, okay, actually, I've had a really bad millennium, you know?
And I was just a bit frightened, but you know, I didn't kill anyone because I just wanted to get away.
Konik's probably going, oh, thank fuck.
They're not blowing us up again.
They're mind wiping us.
For a while.
Oh hello, B shots.
Yeah, yeah.
Again, it's the...
It's the ABBA tribute band guy.
No, you're on in the background.
Yeah, he's not going it's not going to go well.
Let's do a head turn, which is straight out of Mama Mia.
So why is everyone in the galaxy immortal now?
Why is that a thing?
That's what these people just do.
All they do is sit around in a rock in a refrigerator. millennium.
I mean, you know, you're gonna look fresh.
It's focus on one.
It's the Sigourney Weaver principle.
If you sit around a pool and just get massages for centuries.
You're going to look good next time they wheel you out.
Do you think?
You see, to me, I think I, you're only experiencing one moment at a time.
So I don't think immortality's bad.
I'm all for it Well, if I may quote you, Nathan.
It's because all these immortals have not been sufficiently executed enough.
Yeah, I've been waiting all episodes for him to go, more talent.
But like, you know, Brian Blessed, immortal, Catherine Shell's immortal, everyone's fucking immortal.
I'm sure she's still around.
She's not to prove it.
What should she be living with all this?
I think everyone's got lovely eyes in this.
They do have how to say. don't they?
Even Peter Bowles, who's got sort of lovely hazel eyes.
He does and they're very deep and sensitive.
You can see that he's the nicest villain they've had so far.
Now, this is really interesting.
I just love this speech and I love the concept and it's not new, but Burns script had him as the chief scientist, the progenitor of immortality, which makes more sense to me.
Really?
I don't quite see why it's such a thing.
Like, it would read better because he, you know, he created the immortality and then he realised he made a mistake and decided to punish people and kill them.
Like, because he'd realised he made a mistake, that kind of gives the character a bit more motivation than just being evil.
I, but I actually love, like he's like the devil, you know, like the devil, is part of another system, you know, like he's an angel created by God and he rebels and he has a different plan and a different set of values.
Differently moral.
Yeah, but the idea that he's presenting it is this sort of philosophy that he's trying to.
Yeah, Aleister Crowley wrote very well on it.
It's just the virtue of selfishness if you want to quote Iron Rand.
Yeah, yeah, but I mean, he's talking about it if you are listening.
Yeah, well, that's right.
And I'm actually not joking because it's the same philosophy.
Yeah, yeah.
This idea about causing suffering.
Well, individualism, the sake of everything.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Which is all it is.
Why will the whole of the law?
limitations of the whole human spirit.
Yeah.
Well, it's.
He's not human.
He's from the planet.
It's self Mongo.
What planet is he from?
Progron.
Prog Rock.
Prog rock.
He's a problem.
That explains the outcome.
It does.
The Pogrom will continue.
Till morale improves.
But it makes more sense that he wanted to bring mortality back to his people because he realised he'd been in error, but the pain thing was he, and so he became what he is now through the process of trying to bring them back mortality.
Yeah, mad.
But you see, like, so he's just poning.
He's Konig eventually, you know, essentially totes.
Yeah, yeah.
Who's constantly ruining everyone on the office. you know, office of immortality.
Nope, I'm going to put a stop to it, um, and he does it on, on Ultima Thule, and then again on Piri, where it's just like, no, we're not having immortality.
You'll all just sit around and enjoy yourselves and there'll be no show for us to watch.
And so I am going to drag you back to Moonbase Alpha for next week's nuclear explosion.
For more episodes.
For yet more episodes.
We still haven't done series 2 yet and it's going to be a winner.
Getting back.
This 10 year Alexandria.
Hi, darling.
Very attractive, that being here.
He's also in other apps too, yeah.
Which ones?
Oh, Sylvia was very careful about that.
She wants you to actually give texture to it.
Yeah, yeah.
We need pretty people in the background.
There is logic, logical cohesion too.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, with self-reference.
And I actually quite like that we follow that up immediately with a scene of, um, wait, these 3 saying, I'm not sure, I believe him, you know, and discussing what does it mean?
It's not a thing of, oh, we're just going to let him walk around it.
Oh my god, he's evil.
Yeah, yeah.
In fact, what's really interesting about it is how good they are at working out what's going on.
And there's that point where Konig and Baylor are talking.
And Konig explains, you know, what the paintings are for and how he was imprisoned by his people and sent off and all of that sort of thing.
And Baylor kind of, you know, tries to say, no, and then goes, oh no, you're right.
You've got it.
Like, like, yeah, like they just worked that up for themselves.
They don't there's no prompting.
They just use their intelligence to work out what the hell's going on.
And this where they're remembering those images from the thing.
And that, I think, was the thing that struck me most.
I don't remember seeing this as a kid, but I think I did watch it when the DVDs came out.
And I think that the, you know, he's trapped in an asteroid full of these images of hell.
You know, I just think is really incredibly strong.
School production of Les Mis.
Which one's Gavrock?
The plan rehearsing at the moment includes the line.
What possessed him to do one day more in the nude?
Because he didn't have Eileen Sullivan.
Here we go.
He's the he's the thing.
So, Richard...
It is really horrific.
So you sent us on the chat, an image of Martin Landau covered in blood.
Yes.
And some manual.
And if a manual answers, hang up.
What's that coming over the hill?
Sorry.
But we don't actually see that. very much cut.
It's very much heavier, very much.
And again, it was actually Jerry, as far as I know, impetus to make this a proper adult program.
Is it always meant to be?
Even though you can get funky dinky toys of all the spicy things.
And I love that that's on 2 levels at once.
But yeah, I saw this as a little boy.
It was on the same time they didn't cut it, oddly enough. was Australia.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, think about how much Doctor Who was sensitive.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Brain of Morbius, um, He's what, a year or 2 later?
We got this at 70, end of 75.
Never got Morbius to what, 1980 or 70?
Yeah, later than that, I think. lax censorship of.
See, it's still fucking 12 o'clock on the thing.
How is it 12 o'clock?
Oh, no one boties.
Yeah. useful.
Well, it's made of wood.
What do you expect?
Put a clock in there.
Still a bit.
It's a high budget program.
You would think, but they just can't be bothered spending the money on the extra...
That was the set dresses union.
Uh...
You know that probably is what it is.
Yeah, it probably is.
Demarkation.
The Play School clocks?
We're not going to wind the clock.
There's the eagle.
And it was an Apollo thing, like upside down, like it was crashing.
This, but honestly, I've never forgotten it.
And it's why I think of this as one of the 3 greatest episodes of the entire series.
Yeah, okay.
And I honestly believe you tell me about the pace, the editing, the casting is amazing.
Jim Smiley is more terrifying than Baylor.
He's amazing.
This is so strange.
I couldn't remember what had happened to him.
And I thought, has Baylor burnt out his eyes because it's kind of like how are you going to live with your disability and stuff?
And has he turned him into a moron?
But he's kind of turned him into this sort of weird killer.
And this, where, like he's stabbing him repeatedly with it.
Well, that shot that I sent you.
We could put it on the website, I guess, is one of the cut scenes, but it's much more graphic.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And does go longer.
And the fact that the plane is red as well.
Like adds to the...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The tomato juice theme.
Yeah, the plains, right?
The bloody...
The things are red, like the panels are red, yeah.
And they were from the 1st shot.
There we go.
And mounting the plane.
Sorry, mounting the camera on the plane or vice versa.
Also evokes Peeping Tom.
Thank you.
That's the film I was trying to think of, Michael Powell.
So it's Michael Powell, 1961.
Yeah, I think so.
Really 62 that was also doing that.
And he is still cited as the influence of schlock horror, of the Italians still talk about Michael Powell in their film theory.
Argento, Dario Argento, talks about Michael Powell.
Is Coning dead?
Yeah, he's dead.
And then he makes him better.
He's been battered to within.
But he's been whipped.
And now he's left.
Well, they've got a pain for the rest of the season.
So, you know, what do you do?
Look at that.
It's a bit Old Testament.
That is great.
Like, that does it. sells it enough, I think.
And they finally stopped using the bright red paint.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But this...
Jazz hands.
Yeah.
The way he's, he's, even his hands, the way he's holding his hands, is like they're broken.
Like, like his holdings...
Well, it doesn't, doesn't, um, Victor comment on the jazz hands?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He comments.
Yeah, he comments on the position of the hands because they match one of the paintings.
Yes, okay, yes.
And the other thing that sells, like, yeah, it's like the muscles have constricted, so tightly.
You're right, James, that it's warped the body.
And that's just done with performance and pickup.
Yeah.
And yeah, so, yeah, Baylor has the has the power to regenerate them here.
There's another horror comparison.
I want to make a bit later on too.
See, I wondered whether he was going to regenerate Baxter's optic nerd.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, it's so strange because we don't we don't find out why Baxter dies.
No.
No we don't.
And I don't think that's an oversight.
I think that is this is Eldrichian and...
Yeah, it is, it is.
There's a lot of quite a bit of Lovecraft in this, yes.
Well, he can just kill people.
Yeah, he drove him mad, used him to kill him and then he died of shock. basically. wanted to see me command.
It's a bit flirty?
Oh, yeah.
I think there's a scene where there's a scene where Coning is trying to lure him into the, um, airlock, and it just looks like he's in a public loo.
Yeah, exactly.
Would you like to come down to the sauna?
Well, the funny public glue, because it is a British director and it is a British production and we kind of know what a cottage industry the British film.
Do you want to know, John Deceige?
Joyce, is this the point where you want to know, thrashed me with an inch of your lap?
And then I'm going to have...
Do you want to know Peter Bowl's story?
Oh, yeah.
After this production.
It's in his autobiography.
That look.
Wait for it.
Yeah, pages 420 to 422, if you want to know.
He said, this episode of this little TV show, that wasn't a small TV show, ended up being one of the most momentous after effects of my private life, because it's not Penelope Heath climbing his trellis and demanded to be led to in Europe.
Anyway, he said, he came home and there was a woman in his house.
She'd broken in with a stroke.
It was Penelope Keith.
With a Strident American accent and she said, She said, I've sold everything to come here and be with you because I am your sex slave and I want to be dominated by the mouthed evil man in the universe.
This actually happened.
I've heard this story before.
It was Penelope Keith.
It really did.
He doesn't mention the year, but he tells the story.
This is a radio interview in 2007.
That's in his autobiography, which is called, ask me if I'm happy.
I just want to know how did the afternoon go?
I mean, she's put a lot into this.
He does look quite happy there.
That's a bit overlit.
I also think, seriously, I mean, if you're going to sell everything you have, wouldn't you just ask him to, like, get his hair right?
So the other horror comparison I wanted to mention, and it kind of ties in with that story as well.
Is 10 years after this, Clive Barker writes some The Hellbound Heart, which was later adapted into the Hellraiser series of movies.
And the cenobites in that have this concept of suffering releasing the sort of true emotion of the self and particularly sadomasochistics.
There have been cults entirely based on that premise.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. around right now.
Much like this podcast.
Yeah.
Sorry, brand new guy.
But, you know, and that the Hellbound Heart and Hellraiser features, you know, there's a portal you can open to the underworld by solving a puzzle. which is a bit like, you know, all this mystery of this rock, et cetera.
Now, as you say, Richard, you know, these ideas go back into antiquity.
So I'm not suggesting that Clive Barker stole this at all, but Clive Barker is English and could very much have seen this.
It's a lot older than this though.
Oh, exactly, exactly.
But, you know, I think there are the way that um, Baylor and the way that Pinhead describe their view of life and pleasure is very similar.
Yeah.
Because, you know, what Baylor is saying is, through pain, you will find meaning.
You know, it's not just for his pleasure.
He thinks he's bringing them pleasure and the wealth of experience as well.
Paul Sandra just doesn't get any lines this week, does she?
She does have a wonderful moment.
Tanya falls over for like literally no reason there.
Like, I don't quite know what's happening there.
I'm not going to be sexist, you know, ladies like her often do.
And again, the react now.
The sound goes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I have to say, though, that he's a bit shit.
Isn't he?
like, well, so we learn that he's going around the station destroying things, but all we see him doing is pick up this table and then kind of throw it and miss, and then he wanders off and he's destroying all the things that we also actually see it.
He was also Jim Smiley and whomever else.
Yeah, no, that's true.
No, I think ostensible threats.
You know what you do?
It's an orchestral piece.
You don't start the symphony with the full crescendo.
But we don't get the full crescendo or we get these.
A lot of, yeah, but we just get told.
I always hated that desk.
It was in the bloody way of everything.
Fuck you, David.
Hey, girl.
No, look at this.
It just feels like a share reunion to it, doesn't it?
Is she is this her final gig?
I can't tell.
I do I do think the plot is kind of missing a middle.
Like, we've got a lot of buildup and then he says that's very...
Oh, I was horrendously persecuted and then they go, he probably wasn't.
You know, he's probably a dick.
He probably killed a lot of people.
Turns out he's a dick. turns out. yep.
He admitted it.
And now here he is.
He threw a desk and now we're going to talk about how he's destroying the station.
It's funny the paradox could, because I've just realised you're all too young to remember, but definitely the hair and makeup and costume and indeed attitude is absolutely mirroring B. Arthur's Maud.
It really is.
And the little muets, the little moments of there.
And then there's more.
Do you know what?
I think I was one of the very, very 1st people to get Foxtail.
And there was nothing on it except for more.
So I have watched quite a lot of more.
It's pretty great.
It is pretty great.
And I do medical functions are obsolete.
Yeah, no, this is the abortion episode.
I do like Barbara's performance here.
It's superb, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
She doing proper acting.
He's startling her.
Well, not quite.
She's holding back She is holding.
This lady's not going...
This poor bent.
I would not be hanging around love.
Yeah, wander off.
But to the point, it's standing up to the bully.
God, she's good, isn't she?
She's wonderful, isn't she?
hate your hair.
You can't back home it properly.
I'm going to kill this lady.
That's my orderly.
She was going to clean up after that.
My disorderly.
I bring dust.
She does.
He does.
He's so untidy.
She's all out of faith.
This was completely terrifying.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. timing.
Every time you don't do what I say.
I will kill a woman with long hair.
And don't forget children in certain schools or with certain kinds of parents.
This was really triggering.
No, this parented us, this show. don't think?
No, I don't know.
But I mean, it is.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Have you has anyone noticed Andy Sutcliffe yet?
I don't see.
Where?
There aren't many Broom-Broom fans.
Andy Sutcliffe was a very successful Formula 3 racing driver.
Yeah, there is more than one.
And he's in this now for, this isn't Brooke. you know, this isn't production order that we're watching.
But he's in every episode for the rest of the season. was his 1st go at acting.
He's most comely, if you like that kind of thing.
Yeah, he's he's on he's in main mission.
He got a red sleeve, but he manages to live the rest of the season.
Red, of course, here means command.
Yes.
Well, that's why Paul has it.
Yeah, yeah.
So, so, wait a sec.
John's the only one with a black sleeve.
Yeah, well, charcoal.
Oh okay.
It's not actually black.
Anthraxite.
He's supreme command.
Yeah, he's supreme. one with a collar.
And why doesn't he get it?
Why doesn't Victor get a slave?
We've talked about this.
He's a civilian.
So he's actually just wearing his rompers.
He's come stretch straight from a thing.
She's charmies.
Yeah, he's come straight from pyjama party.
But Keith Wilson redesigned the whole.
I don't like the belt. don't think it works.
No, I was actually thinking that today watching this.
I'm just thinking the belts are terrible.
Because they've got English steak and kidney wastes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And Martin has no excuse because he's not English.
Although Kano, sort of completely cylindrical though, isn't he?
He has no Morris column.
You want to go over and glue posters to me. vegetarian sausage.
Yes.
It's an oxymoron, isn't it?
You just wouldn't do it.
Have you heard the latest from David Little Proud?
Australians are being tricked into eating meat substitutes.
They don't know what they're buying and it's like, well, yeah, yeah, I think Barnaby could be tricked.
Fall over in the meets up.
Is that what they're trying now?
They're pissing him off, mate.
They're hanging up on him.
So sorry, fuck off.
And he's like, look, he's always like, oh, fuck yeah.
I have to touch people to kill them.
Fuck.
I got all these powers, but I can't switch the camera back on.
Well, no, he's not a Stephen Moffatt creation.
No, I love that all control the telly.
Sorry.
You're right.
No, I love all that business earlier with the hardware that he couldn't open a door by Chrissy.
Yes, yeah, yeah. frustration that a child has.
That was really good, wasn't it?
And it does come up later.
There's a point there.
So he's he's outro sizing.
His oversizing is an inversion of every child watching this who's small and limited.
So there is a child's rage and dominance in his character.
I will take over this play set.
Peekaboo.
I really like how he just says, I'm going to go in there and get killed and everyone goes, no, well, don't.
And he goes, well, what do you reckon I've got to do?
Like, what can we do here at this point?
Which I thought was really properly good.
Yeah, yeah, he gets his motivation.
He's he's Stone's love skin motivation, which is frustration and boredom.
So this is this is the cottaging scene.
It's so funny.
I just sort of think, you know, like if I was labelling all of the deadly air locks where you can walk through a door and suddenly there's a vacuum.
I think I would like maybe etch it into the thing.
Like, I don't know that I put a big fucking sticker on there that you can just pull off.
I was actually thinking this, and it's also dramatically just not very interesting.
Look at him, look at him pull the sticker off.
That kind, oh.
It's no longer an airlock.
But that kind of, that actually kind of works for sort of the whole prefab nature of the place.
All the doors are the same.
They've just got a sticker on the... like, yeah, it saves money.
And to be honest, a flat pack space station. exactly.
We do that with emergency exits.
Okay.
We do.
But, you know, I did think watching this.
It would actually be probably more interesting if you had like a can of white spray paint.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or if he'd ripped it and like the sticker had ripped and then he's like pulling the bits.
Practically pulling it.
Yeah, and like sticking stick on the wall to pull it off.
I'm just going to stand here looking nonchalant.
And so he like leans against the wall.
Do you come here after looks sideways.
What's a devil like you doing a place like this?
trying to have you?
I shall have your tool.
Oh.
And yet he does actually start looking like Pacino in cruising, doesn't he?
Oh my god, yes.
Far off at all.
He'll come back in many years played by James Franco.
I also think too, part of the problem with this episode is the 1st thing that they think of doing to kill him works.
It's like, maybe we could blow him out an airlock.
Oh yeah.
Let's do that.
Well, sort of.
Like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He gets to punch.
But everyone wants to do that, you know, at these points. be a bit science-y, though.
I mean, you know, although no, don't spoil this.
That's my cubicle.
We've only just met.
Ow, that really helps. not kissing you on the mouth.
Where's my glory hole?
Well, Paul has control of that.
Look how much fun he's having fun.
It's so funny.
Got you.
I'm gonna get him.
Why are you hitting yourself?
are you to this?
That is also very kink.
Yes.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
After you.
Oh yeah, maybe you're right.
It's the 2nd time.
That's the 2nd time.
Yeah, yeah.
We pressed the button.
Yeah.
I love that they have a button in main mission just to do the housework.
The big button.
Yeah, it just sends out the rumbus.
Oh, that's so great. teeth acting What I'm getting is he's a monster made out of snot.
But I like I like him catching the door.
That Sandra's one bit of acting.
Yeah, yeah. watching the show on telly.
But I like that we've established all the way through the episode that he's powerful enough to open the doors.
Yeah, yeah, I love it.
Benny catches the door.
Yeah, yeah.
And it's not like, oh, come on.
But that's the same control there that he couldn't use before.
He couldn't work out how to use that control.
And it's really visual, you know, like it's visibly kind of noticeably the same control.
I need you all now, but that's what I'd be bored if you were all dead.
My playthings.
Oh, there we go.
And that's the thing.
Oh, bum.
Oh, if he if he truly believe...
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
What's happening here?
Tell me what's happening here.
There should be moon outside.
We're at ground level.
So all they've done is pushed him out and he's, since he's immortal, he's just going to walk around, knock on the door.
He's going to knock on the door. that's right.
I did work, apparently.
No, no, he's in space.
Somehow he's in space.
No, because we know escape velocity.
No, he's 2.4 kilometres a 2nd because we're nerds.
And we've watched a lot of space shit.
The air pressure pushed him out like.
Not enough.
No, not off.
It's not enough.
No, see, I think it's the same problem that they had earlier where they thought that having air meant that there was gravity.
Do you know what I mean?
Like in that scene earlier on the, on the, on the thing?
He'd soon crash into the lunar soul just by the apogee of the...
I think he's still there.
Yeah, you know, he's looking in Meyer's window.
And we all do that in Christmas, don't we?
I was just expecting John Pertwe to fight him.
Like who else he's spinning around in that...
It's pretty great.
That was pretty great.
Actually, no, he's no.
So this, what's happening here?
So at some point, Victor says, sorry, Victor says, if we had the choice of immortality, would we have chosen any differently?
And you kind of go, well, no, last week we didn't.
There you go, SpongeBob.
It's back.
SpongeBob is back.
So there we go.
He would possibly be unconscious on the moon because he can be injured, but then he does rebuild.
Can he rebuild away from his satellite?
There has been fanfic written because, obviously, because...
Maybe he's just repeatedly suffocating.
Sisyphus.
Yeah.
And look, you know, yes, he can open an ordinary alpha door, but if he can't open an airlock, he is stuck out there because he can't because he can't work.
Organic plot.
Or maybe he's just like sort of caught orbiting the moon very slowly. not enough to have got him off the surface, so to speak.
It's not enough to have got him off.
He's still haunting those outdoor trains.
See, I do think that's good, but I think it's just kind of missing a middle where, you know, he brings a puppy back to life.
I still think out of evil camp character actors who take over the bass, I think he's still 2nd to Julian Glover.
Oh, yes.
He's got a better outfit than Julian Globber.
Oh, you are kidding.
No, he really does.
No, no, no.
Well, he's got more of an outfit.
He's got tiny pants.
Julian Glover has tiny pants.
Oh, my watching, man. from the deleted scene, ladies.
Yeah, I think we should have deleted that scene.
And it's Martin looking like he's really gone on that corn dog.
Stop picking it, Mark.
Stop picking it, Martin.
This is actually why Zenya didn't have any lines this week.
It was punishment because of this.
They had to work it into the script.
That's really.
It's genuinely proper horror level.
Yeah, yeah.
And look how gorgeous Martin's looking there with all the bloody stuff.
I'm sorry they didn't leave it in because, you know.
It's like, you ruined a suit for this?
The thing is, I think I think if they left it in, then that is a horror movie.
Yeah, it was just on the edge.
It was still terrible.
It's more artful.
You're right.
Yeah, it's more artful.
The episode probably would have been pulled.
That's not a PG rating.
Oh, but I mean, we had poor old Ian McShane burnt to a crisp in a very early episode, and that was pretty odd.
Yeah, but then you put, like, ping-pong balls in his eyeball.
It's fine.
But you know, it's kind of It's always the pretty ones.
Yeah, it's kind of the weird censorship thing of you can show like a body burn beyond recognition, but you can't show blood.
I think that's right.
You can't show the body getting burnt.
Or men's wee beyond recognition.
You can show the crispy, the crispy after effects.
Only in one of Rudy Gernreich.
Lovely hour.
You can show as much side boob as you want.
Although actually they're quite high crotched, aren't they?
I was keeping an eye out this episode, I have to say, because it wasn't holding my attention for much of its run.
Like, it's so strange, but I think it's the emptiness of the, I think, you know, it's very basic as far as what happens.
We've got a brilliant idea, you know, like a great idea, but I'm not sure that it translates into a great story.
Johnny Byrne does this stuff very well.
And there are moments of keeper of Trarkan that this when you're gazing up at...
I think he's just into shoulder pads.
But look, that is that's Christopher Eckson's Sonic Screwdriver.
Yeah.
And 10, 100 points to, um, to Peterballs, who manages to give us proper 70s schlop.
He really does.
Just a time.
Hello, Audrey.
Yeah, just a pinch of Tim Curry.
Same year.
It was being filmed.
There's Alf.
Kirby, what I have there on the...
Anyone still listening, we're watching the deleted and highlights.
Yeah.
Peter's loving that.
He's really loving it.
So how are they imagining the Kirby wires with the ceiling on the sand?
Yeah, well, drilling a hole and sticking them, Kirby?
It's a lot of work.
Or they remove a panel or something?
Yeah, probably one of the panels is just being propped up half an inch and the wires coming in through.
Yeah, they slid the panel to the side and they're shitting them from an angle. a lot of work, yeah.
Well, what do you think?
Is there anything that we need to plug?
Just hands.
Yeah, it's a 9 out of 10 from me, this one.
Okay.
No, I think that's fair enough.
Something is coming back in a couple of days.
Is it the Avengers?
What do you think, Doctor Who?
So therefore, this is going to be released on the day that Doctor Who Disney series 2 happens season two. one of those.
And then, of course, that means that the 2nd great and bountiful Human Empire will be back, probably the following Monday night to talk about the very 1st episode of the season, which is called Spoiler Alert, the Robot Revolution.
We are also in just a couple of weeks time, certainly before the next episode of Startling Barbara Baynairs.
We'll be starting a new series of 500-year diary, which will start, I think, very end of April, 27th of April, I think, and we will be starting with the 2nd appearance of the Daleks in the Dalek Invasion of Earth.
So, JD.
Yes, well, no, no, not quite.
So do you have anything that you want to plug, Brandon?
Yes, so just recently over on the three-handed game, we released Game, our 3rd episode of the Pop Explosion?
Excellent.
And we will be back later this month for our next episode on this green unpleasant land as we go over to Canada for Emily.
And a few weeks ago, we released games on maximum power.
Yes, we did.
So in that case, all the remains is for me to say, until next time, remember, it's so easy to just be nice to people.
So why not try doing that for a change?
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Ta ta.
And keep your biplanes low and loaded.
Yes. what I meant by that.
Well, there's just a lot of tomato sauce.